Cell Segmentation on UNC Longleaf Cluster
================
## Quick Summary:
This repo contains code to perform binary mask generation of DIC images of JR20 dermal fibroblast cells through the use of a CNN run using a GPU. Specifically, this repo contains instructions for running the code on the UNC Longleaf cluster. 

The file `PreprocessImages.ipynb` is a Jupyter notebook that is to be run using the Open OnDemand access to the longleaf cluster (<https://help.rc.unc.edu/ondemand>) and it's purpose is to preprocess the images to ensure that the intensites are appropriately rescaled and the images are 8 bit and in RGB format as well as ensuring the dimensions are square (if dimensions are not square, padding with zeros is performed).

The file `Segment_Images.py` is a python script that uses a CNN model saved with keras to segment the preprocessed DIC images, make a directory where the images are located and saves the masks there. It takes in three agruments: the path where the saved keras model is saved, the path where the preprocessed DIC images to be segmented are located, and the type of mask that is being generated (membrane or nucleus).

`membrane_submitjob.sh` is a SLURM job submission script to use the pretrained keras membrane CNN model to segment membrane and `nucleus_submitjob.sh` is a SLURM job submission script to use the pretrained keras nucleus CNN model to segment nucleus. Before running these files, the second string in the last line needs to be changed to denote the path to where the preprocessed images are located.

## Set up to run code:
Before running the code, a conda environment needs to be created

## How to Run:
Clone this repository and navigate to the folder of this repository on your computer (where the Docker file is located) and build the docker container by running:

```
docker build -t python_docker .
```

Now, run this container with the following: 

```
docker run -v $(pwd):/home/ -it python_docker bash
```

Now your terminal should be interactive with the docker container we have just built. We can use the Makefile to make the figures and fit the model to our data. To generate the autocorrelation figures for the cells migrating on glass, use:

```
make sentinels/ACF_figures_glass.txt
```

To do the same for gel, run:

```
make sentinels/ACF_figures_stiff.txt
```

These targets are sentinels since many plots are actually produced, however the text files do list the names of all the figures generated by these targets.